
Requirements Analysis and Specifications Document 
• Joshua Nicolay Ortiz Osorio 
• Michelangelo Medori

Introduction
This is the first of a series of documents aimed to project a digital management system for a car sharing service. 
Identifying stakeholders, modelling scenarios and formalizing requirements and constrains of the system are the main topics of this document.

Purpose

This  Requirement Analysis and Specification Document (RASD) provides a description of the system in terms of functional and nonfunctional requirements, 
and its aim is to be means of communication among  the stakeholders . 

Description of the given problem

We are going to design an information system which is able to manage a car sharing service only made of electric cars (i.e. cars powered by rechargeable batteries), which are environment-friendly and noise-free.
Precisely, we want to offer the possibility to users to choose a car among an amount of cars dislocated into Milan's urban area, to travel across the city.
Electric cars gather their fuel when they are plugged into proper power grids; these grids are placed all around the city: they can be found into specific charging stations, beyond near a decent number of parking lots around Milan.
Cars can be parked everywhere inside Milan urban area (i.e. any kind of appropriate car park, accordingly to Italian laws, with pay and display parking being the only exception). 
Operators are available to make sure that cars are never left with less than 20% battery charge by charging them into near charging stations.
The final aim of the system is to provide a service within anyone's reach, that stands for a solid alternative to public transport.

//   
Lo scopo di questo progetto è quello di implementare un sistema che sia in grado di gestire un servizio di CarSharing composto da soli veicoli elettrici in rispetto con l’ambiente.
In particolare vogliamo offrire la possibilità agli utenti di poter scegliere una macchina elettrica per spostarsi in città: più economica, silenziosa e meno inquinante  rispetto a una normale macchina alimentata a benzina o diesel. Grazie alla presenza delle safe areas e di stazioni di ricarica, l'obiettivo e' di eliminare anche il problema del parcheggio. 
Questo progetto si propone come una rivoluzione che ha inoltre lo scopo di incentivare l’uso dell’elettrico che nel giro di qualche decennio si spera possa surclassare il comune gasolio. L’obiettivo ultimo del sistema è quello di offrire un servizio alla portata di tutti, che sia efficiente e affidabile, e rappresenti un'alternativa al trasporto pubblico.
//





Purposed System

We want this service to be accessible via mobile or web app. Every user (i.e. person who wants to reserve and ride a car)  must register to the system via the mobile or web app providing general informations (full name, age, sex etc.) and specific ID's (fiscal code, drive license code). 
Once registered, the system allows user to view on a map the current geographical position of every available car, thanks to GPS sensors on each car. Cars already in use by other users do not display, but the system can access the information about the positions of every single car, weather they are being used or not, any time it needs to (in case of assistance requests et al.).
Users can choose a car at the time, and make a reservation for it. They shall reach the car within 30 minutes from the moment the reservation is made,  to be able to use the car.
When near, users can unlock the car by simply tapping on a button on the mobile app or sending a free of charge SMS providing a code written over the car they want to unlock. 
The system unlocks the car soon after and the user is able to get in. In order to start the ride, the user has to insert a code onto a screen inside the car. This code is provided by the system after the registration.
Once the car is started, the user starts to be charged per minute of ride. 
Before starting the ride, the system encourage the user to make sure the car is not damaged or compromised, and to comunicate it, in case issues are found, via the mobile app or a phone call.
Once they ended the ride, users can park cars in every available car park inside the urban area (which includes any kind of parking lot, accordingly to italians laws, pay and display car parks included).  
Some special parking lots are equipped with power grids to recharge the car, and discounts are available in case users take car to plug the car in.
Discounts are also available in case the user leaves the car with more than 50% battery charge, while 
 

L’obiettivo del progetto è quello di creare un sistema che sia disponibile sia sulla piattaforma web che sui normali dispositivi mobili. I clienti per poter usufruire del servizio devono essere registrati nel database. Il sistema attraverso l’uso del GPS o dell’indirizzo inserito manualmente dal cliente provvederà a indicare le macchine più vicine a lui. Le macchine solitamente si troveranno dentro le power grid station oppure sparse all’interno della safe area. Trovata la macchina adatta alle sue esigenze può prenotarla e renderla non disponibile ad altri clienti (la prenotazione dura per una tempo massimo di 60 minuti).L’addebito avviene a fine corsa a seconda del tempo trascorso dall’accensione della macchina e l’importo viene prelevato dal numero di carta prepagata che è stato dato al momento della registrazione.







SAFE AREA: centro urbano di milano
SAFE PARKING LOT : qualunque parcheggio all'interno della safe area
SPECIAL PARKING LOT: safe parking lot dotato di prese per ricaricare la macchina
POWER GRID STATION: stazione di ricarica, in cui risiedono degli addetti (assistenza tecnica), sono presenti dei parcheggi e delle prese per ricaricare le macchine
