
Requirements Analysis and Specifications Document 
• Joshua Nicolay Ortiz Osorio 
• Michelangelo Medori

1)INTRODUCTION
This is the first of a series of documents aimed to project a digital management system for a car sharing service. 
Identifying stakeholders, modeling scenarios and formalizing requirements and constrains of the system are the main topics of this document.

1.1)PURPOSE

This  Requirement Analysis and Specification Document (RASD) provides a description of the system in terms of functional and nonfunctional requirements, and its aim is to be a clear and non ambiguous  means of communication among the stakeholders. After a short description and analysis of the problem, goals (i.e. the main functions of the system) are identified, analyzed and formalized using UML diagrams (use case diagrams, activity diagrams, state diagrams and class diagrams) and Alloy.   

1.2)DESCRIPTION OF THE GIVEN PROBLEM (SCOPE)

We are going to design a digital management system for a car sharing service that only employs electric cars (i.e. cars powered by rechargeable batteries), which are environment-friendly and noise-free.
Precisely, we want to offer the possibility to users to choose a car among an amount of cars dislocated into Milan's urban area, to travel across the city.
Electric cars gather their fuel when they are plugged into proper power grids; these grids are placed all around the city: they can be found into specific charging stations, beyond near a decent number of parking lots around Milan.
Cars can be parked everywhere inside Milan urban area (i.e. any kind of appropriate car park, accordingly to Italian laws, with pay and display parking being the only exception). 
Operators are available to make sure that cars are never left with less than 20% battery charge by charging them into near charging stations.
The final aim of the system is to provide a service within anyone's reach, that stands for a solid alternative to public transport.






1.3)STAKEHOLDERS



1.4)GLOSSARY
•	User : every person registered into the system that wants to use a car.
•	Not Register User (NRU) : all people not registered into the system.
•	Operators:  employees working on charging stations whose job is recharge every car that has less 20% battery level and to provide assistance to the users. Operators are registered through a specific section of the system 		which is dedicated to them
•	Passenger : a person who is traveling in a car without driving it. 
•	Registration: consist in the act of insert all the needed information into  	the system. These information consist in:
	o	First name and Last name
	o	E-mail
	o	Password
	o	Phone number
	o	Birth date 
	o	ID card code 
	o	Drive licence code 
	o	Credit card number 
	o	Fiscal code



//!
SAFE AREA: centro urbano di milano
SAFE PARKING LOT : qualunque parcheggio all'interno della safe area
SPECIAL PARKING LOT: safe parking lot dotato di prese per ricaricare la macchina
POWER GRID STATION: stazione di ricarica, in cui risiedono degli addetti (assistenza tecnica), sono presenti dei parcheggi e delle prese per ricaricare le macchine

1.5)REFERENCE DOCUMENTS
These are the documents we used as guideline:


1.6)OVERVIEW (description of the rest of the document)



2)OVERALL DESCRIPTION



2.1) PRODUCT PERSPECTIVE

We want this service to be accessible via mobile or web app. Every user (i.e. person who wants to reserve and ride a car)  must register to the system via the mobile or web app providing general informations (full name, age, sex, e-mail etc.) and specific ID's (fiscal code, drive license code). 
Once registered, the system allows user to view on a map the current geographical position of every available car, thanks to GPS sensors on each car. Cars already in use by other users do not display, but the system can access the information about the positions of every single car, weather they are being used or not, any time it needs to (in case of assistance requests et al.).
Users can choose a car at the time, and make a reservation for it. They shall reach the car within 30 minutes from the moment the reservation is made,  to be able to use the car.
When near, users can unlock the car by simply tapping on a button on the mobile app or sending a free of charge SMS providing a code written over the car they want to unlock. 
The system unlocks the car soon after and the user is able to get in. In order to start the ride, the user has to insert a code onto a screen inside the car. This code is provided by the system after the registration.
Once the car is started, the user starts to be charged per minute of ride. 
Before starting the ride, the system encourage the user to make sure the car is not damaged or compromised, and to comunicate it, in case issues are found, via the mobile app or a phone call.
Once they ended the ride, users can park cars in every available car park inside the urban area (which includes any kind of parking lot, accordingly to italian laws, pay and display car parks included).  
Some special parking lots are equipped with power grids to recharge the car, and discounts are available in case users take car to plug the car in.
Discounts are also available in case the user leaves the car with more than 50% battery charge, while the user is going to pay 30% more of the price of his ride in case he leaves the car with 20% battery charge or more than 3 km away from the nearest charging station.
Payments are always carried out through the credit card that the user has to insert at the moment of the registration and a receipt is available to view with the mobile app or e-mail.

 



2.1.1) ACTORS IDENTIFYING
There are two main kind of people the System needs to interact with:

-Users
-Operators

Both of them need to be registered into the system.
Operators work at the charging stations and need to pick up and recharge every car below 20% battery charge and provide assistance to users, if needed.
The goals concerning these two groups of people are described below.


2.2)GOALS (PRODUCT FUNCTIONS)


2.3)DOMAIN PROPERTIES






2.4)TEXT ASSUMPTIONS


2.5)CONSTRAINS


3) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
